Add release note for swan-lake-alpha3 (#1995)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: downloads/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-alpha3/RELEASE_NOTE.md

#### Standard Library

##### Log Package Updates

###### Introduced additional log levels and log functions

Introduced 2 additional log levels: `DEBUG` and `WARN`. The  `printDebug` and `printWarn` functions in the `ballerina/log` module can be used to publish logs at the respective log levels. The `print` function was renamed to `printInfo`.

To set the global log level, place the entry given below in the `Config.toml` file:
```toml
[log] 
level = "[LOG_LEVEL]"
```

Each module can also be assigned its own log level. To assign a log level to a module, provide the following entry in the `Config.toml` file:
```toml
[[log.modules]] 
name = "[MODULE_NAME]" 
level = "[LOG_LEVEL]"
```

##### OS Package Updates

- Removed the `exec` function.

##### Task Package Updates

The module has been revamped by removing the `Scheduler` and `Listener` classes and introducing the following functions to schedule and manage the job either one-time or periodically.

- Configures the scheduler worker pool with the worker count and max waiting time.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? output = task:configureWorkerPool(6, 7000);
```

> - Schedules the Ballerina job at a specified time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Schedules the job at a specified time.
```

```ballerina
import ballerina/task;
import ballerina/time;

class MyJob {
   *task:Job;

   public function execute() {
       // logic goes here
   }
}

time:ZoneOffset zoneOffset = {hours: 5, minutes: 30};
time:Civil time = {
    year: 2021,
    month: 4,
    day: 12,
    hour: 23,
    minute: 20,
    second: 50.52,
    timeAbbrev: "Asia/Colombo",
    utcOffset: zoneOffset
};
task:Error|task:JobId id = task:scheduleOneTimeJob(new MyJob(), time);
```

> - Schedules the recurring Ballerina job according to the given duration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Schedules the recurring job according to the given duration.
```

##### Kafka Package Updates

- Renamed the `sendProducerRecord` function in the client object `Producer` to `send`.

- Renamed the `flushRecords` function in the client object `Producer` to `’flush`.

- Replaced the `kafka:ConsumerError` and `kafka:ProducerError` with `kafka:Error`.

##### NATS Package Updates

- Renamed the `ConnectionConfig` record to `ConnectionConfiguration`. 

- Included `url` as a field in the `ConnectionConfiguration` record. 

- Changed the `ConnectionConfiguration` in the client and listener init functions to an included record parameter. This allows the record field values to be passed as named parameters. 

##### STAN Package Updates

- Renamed the `StreamingConfig` record to `StreamingConfiguration`. 

- Included the `url` as a field in the `StreamingConfiguration` record. 

- Changed the `StreamingConfiguration` in the client and listener init functions to an included record parameter. This allows the record field values to be passed as named parameters. 

##### RabbitMQ Package Updates

- Renamed the `ConnectionConfig` record to `ConnectionConfiguration`. 

> ###### Common Standard Library Updates

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be
```suggestion
##### Common Standard Library Updates
```

Author: Fixed

- All the timeout configurations are converted to accept decimal values and the time unit is in seconds.

> ##### Bug Fixes
> 
> To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Swan+Lake+Alpha3%22).
> 

Reviewer 2: Seems like this is also empty?

```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed

- To use a package from the local repository, the 'repository' has to be specified in the TOML table of the relevant dependency in the `Dependencies.toml` file.

E.g., to test a developed package before pushing it to Ballerina Central, build and push it to the local repository using the `push` command and add it to the `Dependencies.toml` file of the depending package as shown below.

```toml
[[dependency]]
org = "ballerinax"
name = "googleapis_sheets"
version = "1.0.0"
repository = "local"
```

### Developer Tools

#### CLI

##### Changes to CLI Commands

- Build and test commands
  - Support for providing `[(--key=value)...]` is removed from `bal build`. 

- Run command
  - Providing the project path to the run command is now optional. The default source root is the present working directory similar to how the build command works.
  - Program arguments should be followed by the end-of-options delimiter `--`.
- New and init commands
  - Introduced creation of the `Pacakge.md` file for a library template. Passing the `--template lib` flag will create the `Package.md` file in addition to the `Ballerina.toml` file and the source BAL files.
- Push command

>   - Introduced pushing to the local repository. Passing `--repository=local` will push the Ballerina archive (.bala) to the local repository. For information about local repository support, see the [Ballerina Packages Changelist](<link>).

Reviewer 2: Link needs to be fixed? @azinneera

Author: Done

layout: ballerina-blank-page
title: Release Note
---
### Overview of Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha3

> The Ballerina Swan Lake release includes the language features planned for the Ballerina Swan Lake release. Moreover, this release includes improvements and bug fixes to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling. This release note lists only the features and updates added after the Alpha2 release of Ballerina Swan Lake.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha3 release includes the language features planned for the Ballerina Swan Lake release. Moreover, this release includes improvements and bug fixes to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling. This release note lists only the features and updates added after the Alpha2 release of Ballerina Swan Lake.
```

Author: Fixed

    - [Language](#language)
    - [Runtime](#runtime)
    - [Standard Library](#standard-library)
    - [Code to Cloud](#code-to-cloud)
    - [Developer Tools](#developer-tools)
    - [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)

### Updating Ballerina

You can use the [Update Tool](/learn/tooling-guide/cli-tools/update-tool/) to update to Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha3 as follows.

#### For Existing Users

If you are already using Ballerina, you can directly update your distribution to the Swan Lake channel using the [Ballerina Update Tool](/learn/tooling-guide/cli-tools/update-tool/). To do this, first, execute the command below to get the update tool updated to its latest version. 

> `bal update`

If you are using an **Update Tool version below 0.8.14**, execute the `ballerina update` command to update it. Next, execute the command below to update to Swan Lake Alpha3.

> `bal dist pull slalpha3`

#### For New Users

If you have not installed Ballerina, then download the [installers](/downloads/#swanlake) to install.

### Highlights

### What is new in Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha3

#### Language

##### Support for Module-level Variables with List, Mapping, and Error Binding Patterns

> Variable declarations with list, mapping, and error binding patterns are now allowed at module level. Unlike simple variables, these variables must be initialized in the declaration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Variable declarations with a list, mapping, and error binding patterns are now allowed at module level. Unlike simple variables, these variables must be initialized in the declaration.
```

Author: Fixed

> Variable declarations with a list, mapping, and error binding patterns are now allowed at the module level. Unlike simple variables, these variables must be initialized in the declaration.

Reviewer 4: Should be "with list, mapping, and error..." right? And is it "mapping, and error" or "mapping, or error"?

Reviewer 4: Also, @MaryamZi is "simple variable" an ok term to use? 🤔

Reviewer 2: Yeah, since we are talking about patterns (plural) we don't need the "a". I think we can use "or" too.

Re: simple variables, the other alternative is to use "capture variables" but I'm not sure if that is a term familiar to users. Since it is clear what "simple variables" is here with the context, shall we go ahead with it?

```suggestion
Variable declarations with list, mapping, or error binding patterns are now allowed at the module level. Unlike simple variables, these variables must be initialized in the declaration.
```

Or we can say

```suggestion
Variable declarations with list, mapping, and error binding patterns are now allowed at the module level. Unlike capture variables, these variables must be initialized in the declaration.
```

Reviewer 4: Capture variables sound unfamiliar and weird. :D Let's stick to simple variable then.

Author: Done.

> Also, these variable declarations cannot contain an `isolated` or `configurable` qualifier.

Reviewer 4: "an" or "the"?

Reviewer 2: +1 for "the".

```suggestion
Also, these variable declarations cannot contain the `isolated` or `configurable` qualifier.
```

Author: Fixed

```ballerina
type Annot record {|
    int[] i = [];
|};

public annotation Annot v1 on function;

@v1 // Same as `@v1 {}`
public function main() {
}
```

##### Introduction of the `function` Function Type Descriptor to Represent Any Function

A new `function` type descriptor has been introduced to represent all function values.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

function add(int v1, int v2) returns int => v1 + v2;

function compare(int v1, int v2) returns boolean => v1 < v2;

public function main() {
    // A variable of type `function` can hold any function value.
    function f = add;
    io:println("Process (add, 1, 2): ", process(f, 1, 2)); // Prints `Process (add, 1, 2): 3`
    io:println("Process (compare, 1, 2): ", process(compare, 1, 2)); // Prints `Process (compare, 1, 2): 0`
}

function process(function func, int v1, int v2) returns int {
    // A function of type `function` cannot be called directly.
    // A function value assigned to a `function`-typed variable
    // can only be called after the type is narrowed to the relevant type.
    if (func is function (int, int) returns int) {
        return func(v1, v2);
    }
    return 0;
}
```

> ##### Improved lang library functions

Reviewer 4: This says "Improved" while a section before this said "Improvement". Shouldn't all these be in the same format? Also, shouldn't the title case be followed here as well?

Reviewer 2: Shall we say

```suggestion
##### New Lang Library Functions
```

We only have one though.

Author: Fixed

###### New `xml:text()` function

This function can be used to select all the items in a sequence that are of type `xml:Text`.

```ballerina
xml name = xml `<name>Dan<middleName>Gerhard</middleName><!-- This is a comment -->Brown</name>`;
xml:Text nameText = (name/*).text();
io:println(nameText); // "DanBrown"
```

##### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE).

#### Runtime

##### New runtime Java API to create errors

A new runtime Java API is introduced to create errors.
```java
BError createError(Module module, String errorTypeName, BString message, BError cause, Object details)
```
The `createDistinctError` API has been deprecated and should not be used to create distinct errors. The new `createError` API can be used instead.

##### Configurable Variables

> Improved error messages are introduced for configurable variables by including more information and the relevant `Config.toml` line numbers.

Reviewer 4: We don't usually include improvements to error messages specifically like this right? @MaryamZi thoughts?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I guess this isn't something we usually add to the release note. @warunalakshitha wdyt?

Reviewer 5: +1 to remove that section. @HindujaB Can u check too?

Reviewer 6: yes. +1 to remove this

Author: Removed

##### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FjBallerina).

#### Standard Library

##### Log Package Updates

###### Introduced additional log levels and log functions

> There are 4 log levels: `DEBUG`, `ERROR`, `INFO`, and `WARN` and their respective functions: `printDebug`, `printError`, `printInfo`, and `printWarn`. To set the global log level, place the entry given below in the `Config.toml` file:

Reviewer 4: Shall we rephrase the first sentence? Feels like a fragment of a sentence. Maybe in the following format:
> Introduced this many additional log levels: Level1 and Level2. The printLevel1 and printLevel2 functions in the `ballerina/log` module can be used to publish logs at the respective log levels.

Author: Refer https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1995#discussion_r598644122

> There are 4 log levels: `DEBUG`, `ERROR`, `INFO`, and `WARN` and their respective functions: `printDebug`, `printError`, `printInfo`, and `printWarn`. To set the global log level, place the entry given below in the `Config.toml` file:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Introduced 2 additional log levels: `DEBUG` and `WARN`. The  `printDebug` and `printWarn` functions in the `ballerina/log` module can be used to publish logs at the respective log levels. The `print` function was renamed to `printInfo`.

To set the global log level, place the entry given below in the `Config.toml` file:
```

```toml
[log] 
level = "[LOG_LEVEL]"
```

Each module can also be assigned its own log level. To assign a log level to a module, provide the following entry in the `Config.toml` file:
```toml
[[log.modules]] 

> name = "[MODULE_NAME]" 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
name = "[ORG_NAME]/[MODULE_NAME]" 
```

level = "[LOG_LEVEL]"

> ```

Reviewer 4: @MadhukaHarith92 It's better if we specify the format in which we expect the module name.

Reviewer 7: Updated in 6754883

Author: Fixed

##### OS Package Updates

- Removed the `exec` function.

##### Task Package Updates

The module has been revamped by removing the `Scheduler` and `Listener` classes and introducing the following functions to schedule and manage the job either one-time or periodically.

- Configures the scheduler worker pool with the worker count and max waiting time.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? output = task:configureWorkerPool(6, 7000);
```

> - Schedules the Ballerina job at a specified time.

Reviewer 4: Why are we referring to these tasks as "Ballerina jobs"? Is that a term which has a specific meaning?

Reviewer 4: @ThisaruGuruge

Reviewer 2: @kalaiyarasiganeshalingam

Reviewer: We have introduced the `Job` object type in the task module, which is used to create the class with custom logic by the user to execute when the task is triggered. Please refer https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-task/blob/master/task-ballerina/commons.bal#L25

Reviewer 4: No, that's fine. My question is, why refer to it as "Ballerina job" instead of just simply referring to it as a "job" or a "task"? Even in the documentation of the `Job` object in the above link, it's referred to as "The Ballerina `Job` object". Judging by the documentation, it seems to be to say "the `Job` object in Ballerina"? If that's the case, I think we can just drop the "Ballerina" part when referring to jobs/tasks.

time:Civil time = {
    year: 2021,
    month: 4,
    day: 12,
    hour: 23,
    minute: 20,
    second: 50.52,
    timeAbbrev: "Asia/Colombo",
    utcOffset: zoneOffset
};
task:Error|task:JobId id = task:scheduleOneTimeJob(new MyJob(), time);
```

- Schedules the recurring Ballerina job according to the given duration.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

class MyJob {
   *task:Job;

   public function execute() {
       // logic goes here
   }
}
task:Error|task:JobId id = task:scheduleJobRecurByFrequency(new MyJob(), 1);
```

- Unschedules the particular job.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:unscheduleJob(id);
```

- Pauses all the jobs.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:pauseAllJobs();
```

- Resumes all the jobs.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:resumeAllJobs();
```

- Pauses the particular job.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:pauseJob(id);
```

- Resumes the particular job.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:resumeJob(id);
```

- Gets all the running jobs.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

> task:Error? result = task:getRunningJobs();

Reviewer 4: Is this code snippet correct? When saying `getRunningJobs()`, isn't the expectation a list of all running jobs? 🤔 @ThisaruGuruge

Reviewer 7: @kalaiyarasiganeshalingam

Reviewer: Fixed in 5b060cc

Author: Refer https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1995#discussion_r598651385

Steps for migration from the previous version to the current version are listed [in this issue](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues/1079).

##### Cache Package Updates

- Introduced the new `EvictionPolicy` configuration to set the eviction policy in the `CacheConfig` record.

The `EvictionPolicy` record has been introduced with the option `LRU` as the module only supports the LRU eviction policy to evict the cache data when the cache is full.

- Removed the `AbstractEvictionPolicy` object type.

This object type had the common APIs for the cache eviction functionalities to implement a custom eviction policy. It has been removed with the introduction of the above configuration.

##### New `xmldata` Package

A new module is added to convert data in XML format to JSON format and vice-versa.

- Converts a JSON object to an XML representation.
```ballerina
import ballerina/xmldata;

json data = {
    name: "John",
    age: 30
};
xml|xmldata:Error x = xmldata:fromJson(data);
```

- Converts an XML value to its JSON representation.
```ballerina
import ballerina/xmldata;

json|xmldata:Error j = xmldata:toJson(xml `foo`);
```

> ##### Remove `jsonutils`, `xmlutils`, `runtime`, and `reflect` Packages

Reviewer 4: Removed?

Reviewer 7: Updated in 9c3e973

Author: Refer https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1995#discussion_r598648489

> ##### Remove `jsonutils`, `xmlutils`, `runtime`, and `reflect` Packages

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
##### Removed `jsonutils`, `xmlutils`, `runtime`, and `reflect` Packages
```

> The `jsonutils`, `xmlutils`, `runtime`, and `reflect` packages are removed from Standard Libraries.

Reviewer 4: Are removed or were removed? 🤔 And should be "Standard Library" right?

Reviewer 7: Yeah, it should be "were removed". Updated in 476974e

Author: Refer https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/1995#discussion_r598648159

> The `jsonutils`, `xmlutils`, `runtime`, and `reflect` packages are removed from Standard Libraries.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The `jsonutils`, `xmlutils`, `runtime`, and `reflect` packages were removed from Standard Libraries.
```

- Included `url` as a field in the `ConnectionConfiguration` record. 

- Changed the `ConnectionConfiguration` in the client and listener init functions to an included record parameter. This allows the record field values to be passed as named parameters. 

##### STAN Package Updates

- Renamed the `StreamingConfig` record to `StreamingConfiguration`. 

- Included the `url` as a field in the `StreamingConfiguration` record. 

- Changed the `StreamingConfiguration` in the client and listener init functions to an included record parameter. This allows the record field values to be passed as named parameters. 

##### RabbitMQ Package Updates

- Renamed the `ConnectionConfig` record to `ConnectionConfiguration`. 

###### Common Standard Library Updates

- All the timeout configurations are converted to accept decimal values and the time unit is in seconds.

##### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Swan+Lake+Alpha3%22).

#### Code to Cloud

- Removed Docker annotation support.

##### Bug Fixes

> To view bug fixes, see the GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3 of the repositories below.
> 
> - [C2C](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-c2c/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-c2c/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22).
```

Author: @MaryamZi Based on the above comment, `[GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3]` should point here
https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/milestone/105?closed=1

The link in your comment point to points only `c2c` bug fixes. In that case, we have to explicitly say for c2c bug fixes as I was earlier. WDYT?

Author: Fixed

time:Civil time = {
    year: 2021,
    month: 4,
    day: 12,
    hour: 23,
    minute: 20,
    second: 50.52,
    timeAbbrev: "Asia/Colombo",
    utcOffset: zoneOffset
};
task:Error|task:JobId id = task:scheduleOneTimeJob(new MyJob(), time);
```

- Schedules the recurring Ballerina job according to the given duration.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

class MyJob {
   *task:Job;

   public function execute() {
       // logic goes here
   }
}
task:Error|task:JobId id = task:scheduleJobRecurByFrequency(new MyJob(), 1);
```

- Unschedules the particular job.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:unscheduleJob(id);
```

- Pauses all the jobs.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:pauseAllJobs();
```

- Resumes all the jobs.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:resumeAllJobs();
```

- Pauses the particular job.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:pauseJob(id);
```

- Resumes the particular job.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

task:Error? result = task:resumeJob(id);
```

- Gets all the running jobs.
```ballerina
import ballerina/task;

> task:Error? result = task:getRunningJobs();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
task:JobId[] jobIds = task:getRunningJobs();
```

layout: ballerina-blank-page
title: Release Note
---

> ### Overview of jBallerina {{ site.data.stable-latest.metadata.version }}

Reviewer 8: We can add a small intro like this before the overview - 
This is the third alpha in a series of planned alphas and betas leading up to the Ballerina Swan Lake GA release.

Author: Fixed

> This Alpha3 release includes the language features planned for the Ballerina Swan Lake release. Moreover, this release includes improvements and bug fixes to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling. This release note lists only the features and updates added after the Alpha2 release of Ballerina Swan Lake.

Reviewer 2: I believe we decided to use "The <VERSION> release". https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/109/files#diff-5ff698e00894e1160e7ae1009a4cffaa894c9fb736b9000d9c4ac07da5be04faR7

Shall we also include "Ballerina Swan Lake"

```suggestion
The Ballerina Swan Lake Alpha3 release includes the language features planned for the Ballerina Swan Lake release. Moreover, this release includes improvements and bug fixes to the compiler, runtime, standard library, and developer tooling. This release note lists only the features and updates added after the Alpha2 release of Ballerina Swan Lake.
```

The absence of the mapping constructor expression in such an annotation attachment is equivalent to specifying a mapping constructor expression with no fields.
```ballerina
type Annot record {|
    int[] i = [];
|};

public annotation Annot v1 on function;

@v1 // Same as `@v1 {}`
public function main() {
}
```

##### Introduction of the `function` Function Type Descriptor to Represent Any Function

A new `function` type descriptor has been introduced to represent all function values.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

function add(int v1, int v2) returns int => v1 + v2;

function compare(int v1, int v2) returns boolean => v1 < v2;

public function main() {
    // A variable of type `function` can hold any function value.
    function f = add;
    io:println("Process (add, 1, 2): ", process(f, 1, 2)); // Prints `Process (add, 1, 2): 3`
    io:println("Process (compare, 1, 2): ", process(compare, 1, 2)); // Prints `Process (compare, 1, 2): 0`
}

function process(function func, int v1, int v2) returns int {
    // A function of type `function` cannot be called directly.

>     // A function value assigned to a `function` typed variable 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // A function value assigned to a `function`-typed variable 
```

    // can only be called after the type is narrowed to the relevant type.
    if (func is function (int, int) returns int) {
        return func(v1, v2);
    }
    return 0;
}
```

##### Improved lang library functions

###### New `xml:text()` function

This function can be used to select all the items in a sequence that are of type `xml:Text`.

```ballerina
xml name = xml `<name>Dan<middleName>Gerhard</middleName><!-- This is a comment -->Brown</name>`;
xml:Text nameText = (name/*).text();
io:println(nameText); // "DanBrown"
```

##### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FCompilerFE).

#### Runtime

> ##### JAVA Runtime API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
##### New runtime Java API to create errors
```

A new runtime Java API is introduced to create errors.
```java
BError createError(Module module, String errorTypeName, BString message, BError cause, Object details)
```
The `createDistinctError` API has been deprecated and should not be used to create distinct errors. The new `createError` API can be used instead.

##### Configurable Variables

> Improved error messages are introduced for configurable variables by including more information and the relevant
>  `Config.toml` line numbers.
> ##### Bug Fixes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Improved error messages are introduced for configurable variables by including more information and the relevant `Config.toml` line numbers.

##### Bug Fixes
```

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22+label%3AType%2FBug+label%3ATeam%2FjBallerina).

#### Standard Library

##### Log Package Updates

> ###### Introduce additional log levels and log functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
###### Introduced additional log levels and log functions
```

- Renamed the `ConnectionConfig` record to `ConnectionConfiguration`. 

- Included `url` as a field in the `ConnectionConfiguration` record. 

- Changed the `ConnectionConfiguration` in the client and listener init functions to an included record parameter. This allows the record field values to be passed as named parameters. 

##### STAN Package Updates

- Renamed the `StreamingConfig` record to `StreamingConfiguration`. 

- Included the `url` as a field in the `StreamingConfiguration` record. 

- Changed the `StreamingConfiguration` in the client and listener init functions to an included record parameter. This allows the record field values to be passed as named parameters. 

##### RabbitMQ Package Updates

- Renamed the `ConnectionConfig` record to `ConnectionConfiguration`. 

###### Common Standard Library Updates

- All the timeout configurations are converted to accept decimal values and the time unit is in seconds.

##### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the [GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Swan+Lake+Alpha3%22).

#### Code to Cloud

> 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
- Removed Docker annotation support.
```

##### Bug Fixes

To view bug fixes, see the GitHub milestone for Swan Lake Alpha3 of the repositories below.

- [C2C](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-c2c/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22)
- [Docker](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-docker/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22)
- [AWS Lambda](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-aws.lambda/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22)

> - [Azure Functions](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-azure.functions/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3AType%2FBug+milestone%3A%22Ballerina+Swan+Lake+-+Alpha3%22) 

Reviewer 2: Some of these milestones (and some below) are empty. Shall we check and remove such links? I believe this is what we discussed @praneesha.
